platform/docs/docs/migration-guide/3p9-to-3p10/CustomizationService/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Customization Service
---

# CustomizationService



**Key Changes:**

1. **Unified Customization Getter:**
   - The `getCustomization` method now uniformly retrieves customizations, prioritizing `global`, then `mode`, and finally `default` customizations.
   - The `defaultValue` parameter in `getCustomization` is no longer used for setting defaults. It simply returns if no customization is found.
   - The methods `getModeCustomization` and `getGlobalCustomization` are deprecated.

2. **Simplified Customization Registration:**
   - The `customizationType` property in customization definitions is renamed to `inheritsFrom`.
   - The `merge` property in customization definitions is removed. Instead, a customization is merged using the helper methods. The basic update commands are listed in the table below, and you can learn more about the helper methods [here](../../../platform/services/customization-service/customizationService.md).

     | Command  | Description                               | Example                                           |
     | :------- | :---------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
     | `$set`   | Replace a value entirely                 | Replace a list or object                        |
     | `$push`  | Append items to an array                 | Add to the end of a list                        |
     | `$unshift` | Prepend items to an array                | Add to the start of a list                      |
     | `$splice` | Insert, remove, or replace at specific index | Modify specific indices in a list                 |
     | `$merge` | Update specific fields in an object      | Change a subset of fields                       |
     | `$apply` | Compute the new value dynamically        | Apply a function to transform values              |
     | `$filter` | Find and update specific items in arrays | Target nested structures based on matching criteria |


4. **Renamed `CornerstoneOverlay` customizations:**
   - The `cornerstoneOverlay` customizations (`cornerstoneOverlayTopLeft`, `cornerstoneOverlayTopRight`, `cornerstoneOverlayBottomLeft`, `cornerstoneOverlayBottomRight`) have been renamed to `viewportOverlay.topLeft`, `viewportOverlay.topRight`, `viewportOverlay.bottomLeft`, and `viewportOverlay.bottomRight`. See dedicated page for customizing viewport overlays [here](../../../platform/services/customization-service/viewportOverlay.md).

6. **Renamed `customRoutes`:**
   - The `customRoutes` customization is renamed to `routes.customRoutes`.

7.  **`contextMenu` customization:**
    - The `contextMenu` customization now uses the `inheritsFrom` property to inherit from other context menus, previously it was called `customizationType`

5. **New `immutability-helper` dependency:**
   The `immutability-helper` library is now used for merging customizations. If you encounter an error related to it, you'll need to install it - though OHIF should really handle the installation for you, so this is pretty much just a heads up.

**Migration Steps:**

1. **Replace `getModeCustomization` and `getGlobalCustomization` with `getCustomization`:**

   - **Before:**

     ```javascript
     const tools = customizationService.getModeCustomization(
       'cornerstone.overlayViewportTools'
     )?.tools;
     const globalValue = customizationService.getGlobalCustomization('someGlobalKey');
     ```

   - **After:**

     ```javascript
     const tools = customizationService.getCustomization('cornerstone.overlayViewportTools');
     const globalValue = customizationService.getCustomization('someGlobalKey');
     ```


     :::note
     The returned value is the actual customization value, not an object that needs to be broken down.
     :::

2. **Update Customization Definitions:**
   - We've moved away from using random items in the customization definition, and now we use the `id` property to identify the customization as a value. Previously, it was referred to as `value`, `values`, and so on, but now an `id` is used to reference the customization. This approach really simplifies things - when you need to grab the customization, you can just use the `id` to get it, and you don't have to bother with destructuring the value from the object.




**Example: Customizing a Panel**

**Before (v3.9):**

```javascript
// the default value was hardcoded inside the panel itself - bad idea!
// default was given in the panel itself

// PanelSegmentation.tsx

// Retrieve the onSegmentationAdd customization
const { onSegmentationAdd } = customizationService.getCustomization(
  'PanelSegmentation.onSegmentationAdd',
  {
    id: 'segmentation.onSegmentationAdd',
    onSegmentationAdd: handlers.onSegmentationAdd,
  }
);

// Retrieve the disableEditing customization
const { disableEditing } = customizationService.getCustomization(
  'PanelSegmentation.disableEditing',
  {
    id: 'default.disableEditing',
    disableEditing: false,
  }
);



// mode was customizing it via
customizationService.addModeCustomizations([
  {
    id: 'PanelSegmentation.tableMode',
    mode: 'expanded',
  },
  {
    id: 'PanelSegmentation.showAddSegment',
    showAddSegment: false,
  },
]);

```

**After (v3.10):**

```javascript
// cornerstone extension getCustomizationModule
// centralized customization location for all extensions - good!
function getCustomizationModule() {
  return [
    {
      name: 'default',
      value: {
        'panelSegmentation.disableEditing': false,
        'panelSegmentation.showAddSegment': true,
      },
    },
  ];
}


// inside panelSegmentation.tsx
const disableEditing = customizationService.getCustomization('panelSegmentation.disableEditing');
const showAddSegment = customizationService.getCustomization('panelSegmentation.showAddSegment');


// mode can customize it via $ operators for mode customizations
customizationService.setCustomizations({
  'panelSegmentation.disableEditing': { $set: true },
  'panelSegmentation.showAddSegment': { $set: false },
});


//or via configuration for global customizations
window.config = {
  // rest of config
  customizationService: [
    {
      'panelSegmentation.disableEditing': {
        $set: true, // Disables editing of segmentations in the panel
      },
    },
  ],
  // rest of config
};
```



**Example: Updating a Customization**

Let's say you have a customization in v3.9 that adds a custom overlay item to the top-left corner:

**Before (v3.9):**

```javascript
// In your mode's onModeEnter
customizationService.addModeCustomizations([
  {
    id: 'cornerstoneOverlayTopLeft',
    items: [
      {
        id: 'myCustomOverlay',
        customizationType: 'ohif.overlayItem',
        attribute: 'PatientName',
        label: 'Patient:',
      },
    ],
  },
]);
```

**After (v3.10):**

```javascript
// In your mode's onModeEnter or elsewhere
customizationService.setCustomizations({
  'viewportOverlay.topLeft': {
    $push: [
      {
        id: 'myCustomOverlay',
        inheritsFrom: 'ohif.overlayItem',
        attribute: 'PatientName',
        label: 'Patient:',
      },
    ],
  },
});
```

**Note:**

- The `customizationType` is replaced with `inheritsFrom`.





## Renaming

To keep our customization system consistent, you should be aware of a few key renaming conventions. We now follow a straightforward naming convention for customizations: `scopeName.customizationItem`.



| Customization Key (Old)                     | Customization Key (New)                      | Description                                                                 |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `PanelMeasurement.disableEditing`             | `panelMeasurement.disableEditing`              | Disables editing measurements in the Measurement Panel and after SR hydration. |
| `PanelSegmentation.CustomDropdownMenuContent` | `panelSegmentation.customDropdownMenuContent`  | Custom content for the dropdown menu in the Segmentation Panel.             |
| `PanelSegmentation.disableEditing`             | `panelSegmentation.disableEditing`              | Disables editing segmentations in the Segmentation Panel.                    |
| `PanelSegmentation.showAddSegment`             | `panelSegmentation.showAddSegment`              | Controls visibility of the "Add Segment" button in the Segmentation Panel.    |
| `PanelSegmentation.onSegmentationAdd`          | `panelSegmentation.onSegmentationAdd`           | Custom function to execute when a new segmentation is added.                 |
| `PanelSegmentation.tableMode`                | `panelSegmentation.tableMode`                 | Controls the table mode (collapsed/expanded) in the Segmentation Panel.       |
| `PanelSegmentation.readableText`             | `panelSegmentation.readableText`              | Custom readable text labels for the Segmentation Panel.                       |
| `PanelStudyBrowser.studyMode`                | `studyBrowser.studyMode`                     | Controls the study mode (all/primary/recent) in the Study Browser Panel.      |
| `customRoutes`                                | `routes.customRoutes`                         | Defines custom routes for the application.                                  |
| `cornerstoneOverlayTopLeft`                   | `viewportOverlay.topLeft`                    | Custom overlay items for the top-left corner of the viewport.                  |
| `cornerstoneOverlayTopRight`                  | `viewportOverlay.topRight`                   | Custom overlay items for the top-right corner of the viewport.                 |
| `cornerstoneOverlayBottomLeft`                | `viewportOverlay.bottomLeft`                 | Custom overlay items for the bottom-left corner of the viewport.              |
| `cornerstoneOverlayBottomRight`               | `viewportOverlay.bottomRight`                | Custom overlay items for the bottom-right corner of the viewport.             |

Commit message:

Refactor customization transformation methods to use `$transform`
- Updated all instances of the `transform` method to `$transform` across various files, including context menu customizations and the CustomizationService.
- This change enhances consistency in the customization API and aligns with the new command naming conventions.
- Updated documentation to reflect the introduction of the `$transform` command, providing clearer guidance for developers on its usage.

These modifications improve the clarity and functionality of the customization system, making it more intuitive for developers to implement and manage customizations.

platform/docs/docs/migration-guide/3p9-to-3p10/CustomizationService/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Customization Service
---

# CustomizationService



**Key Changes:**


1. **Unified Customization Getter:**
   - The `getCustomization` method now uniformly retrieves customizations, prioritizing `global`, then `mode`, and finally `default` customizations.
   - The `defaultValue` parameter in `getCustomization` is no longer used for setting defaults. It simply returns if no customization is found.
   - The methods `getModeCustomization` and `getGlobalCustomization` are deprecated.

2. **Simplified Customization Registration:**
   - The `customizationType` property in customization definitions is renamed to `inheritsFrom`.
   - The `merge` property in customization definitions is removed. Instead, a customization is merged using the helper methods. The basic update commands are listed in the table below, and you can learn more about the helper methods [here](../../../platform/services/customization-service/customizationService.md).

     | Command  | Description                               | Example                                           |
     | :------- | :---------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
     | `$set`   | Replace a value entirely                 | Replace a list or object                        |
     | `$push`  | Append items to an array                 | Add to the end of a list                        |
     | `$unshift` | Prepend items to an array                | Add to the start of a list                      |
     | `$splice` | Insert, remove, or replace at specific index | Modify specific indices in a list                 |
     | `$merge` | Update specific fields in an object      | Change a subset of fields                       |
     | `$apply` | Compute the new value dynamically        | Apply a function to transform values              |
     | `$filter` | Find and update specific items in arrays | Target nested structures based on matching criteria |


3. **New `$transform` command:**
   - If you were using the `transform` command, you should now use the `$transform` command. Just a simple rename to make it more consistent with the other commands.


5. **Renamed `CornerstoneOverlay` customizations:**
   - The `cornerstoneOverlay` customizations (`cornerstoneOverlayTopLeft`, `cornerstoneOverlayTopRight`, `cornerstoneOverlayBottomLeft`, `cornerstoneOverlayBottomRight`) have been renamed to `viewportOverlay.topLeft`, `viewportOverlay.topRight`, `viewportOverlay.bottomLeft`, and `viewportOverlay.bottomRight`. See dedicated page for customizing viewport overlays [here](../../../platform/services/customization-service/viewportOverlay.md).

6. **Renamed `customRoutes`:**
   - The `customRoutes` customization is renamed to `routes.customRoutes`.

7.  **`contextMenu` customization:**
    - The `contextMenu` customization now uses the `inheritsFrom` property to inherit from other context menus, previously it was called `customizationType`

8. **New `immutability-helper` dependency:**
   The `immutability-helper` library is now used for merging customizations. If you encounter an error related to it, you'll need to install it - though OHIF should really handle the installation for you, so this is pretty much just a heads up.

**Migration Steps:**

1. **Replace `getModeCustomization` and `getGlobalCustomization` with `getCustomization`:**

   - **Before:**

     ```javascript
     const tools = customizationService.getModeCustomization(
       'cornerstone.overlayViewportTools'
     )?.tools;
     const globalValue = customizationService.getGlobalCustomization('someGlobalKey');
     ```

   - **After:**

     ```javascript
     const tools = customizationService.getCustomization('cornerstone.overlayViewportTools');
     const globalValue = customizationService.getCustomization('someGlobalKey');
     ```


     :::note
     The returned value is the actual customization value, not an object that needs to be broken down.
     :::

2. **Update Customization Definitions:**
   - We've moved away from using random items in the customization definition, and now we use the `id` property to identify the customization as a value. Previously, it was referred to as `value`, `values`, and so on, but now an `id` is used to reference the customization. This approach really simplifies things - when you need to grab the customization, you can just use the `id` to get it, and you don't have to bother with destructuring the value from the object.




**Example: Customizing a Panel**

**Before (v3.9):**

```javascript
// the default value was hardcoded inside the panel itself - bad idea!
// default was given in the panel itself

// PanelSegmentation.tsx

// Retrieve the onSegmentationAdd customization
const { onSegmentationAdd } = customizationService.getCustomization(
  'PanelSegmentation.onSegmentationAdd',
  {
    id: 'segmentation.onSegmentationAdd',
    onSegmentationAdd: handlers.onSegmentationAdd,
  }
);

// Retrieve the disableEditing customization
const { disableEditing } = customizationService.getCustomization(
  'PanelSegmentation.disableEditing',
  {
    id: 'default.disableEditing',
    disableEditing: false,
  }
);



// mode was customizing it via
customizationService.addModeCustomizations([
  {
    id: 'PanelSegmentation.tableMode',
    mode: 'expanded',
  },
  {
    id: 'PanelSegmentation.showAddSegment',
    showAddSegment: false,
  },
]);

```

**After (v3.10):**

```javascript
// cornerstone extension getCustomizationModule
// centralized customization location for all extensions - good!
function getCustomizationModule() {
  return [
    {
      name: 'default',
      value: {
        'panelSegmentation.disableEditing': false,
        'panelSegmentation.showAddSegment': true,
      },
    },
  ];
}


// inside panelSegmentation.tsx
const disableEditing = customizationService.getCustomization('panelSegmentation.disableEditing');
const showAddSegment = customizationService.getCustomization('panelSegmentation.showAddSegment');


// mode can customize it via $ operators for mode customizations
customizationService.setCustomizations({
  'panelSegmentation.disableEditing': { $set: true },
  'panelSegmentation.showAddSegment': { $set: false },
});


//or via configuration for global customizations
window.config = {
  // rest of config
  customizationService: [
    {
      'panelSegmentation.disableEditing': {
        $set: true, // Disables editing of segmentations in the panel
      },
    },
  ],
  // rest of config
};
```



**Example: Updating a Customization**

Let's say you have a customization in v3.9 that adds a custom overlay item to the top-left corner:

**Before (v3.9):**

```javascript
// In your mode's onModeEnter
customizationService.addModeCustomizations([
  {
    id: 'cornerstoneOverlayTopLeft',
    items: [
      {
        id: 'myCustomOverlay',
        customizationType: 'ohif.overlayItem',
        attribute: 'PatientName',
        label: 'Patient:',
      },
    ],
  },
]);
```

**After (v3.10):**

```javascript
// In your mode's onModeEnter or elsewhere
customizationService.setCustomizations({
  'viewportOverlay.topLeft': {
    $push: [
      {
        id: 'myCustomOverlay',
        inheritsFrom: 'ohif.overlayItem',
        attribute: 'PatientName',
        label: 'Patient:',
      },
    ],
  },
});
```

**Note:**

- The `customizationType` is replaced with `inheritsFrom`.





## Renaming

To keep our customization system consistent, you should be aware of a few key renaming conventions. We now follow a straightforward naming convention for customizations: `scopeName.customizationItem`.



| Customization Key (Old)                     | Customization Key (New)                      | Description                                                                 |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `PanelMeasurement.disableEditing`             | `panelMeasurement.disableEditing`              | Disables editing measurements in the Measurement Panel and after SR hydration. |
| `PanelSegmentation.CustomDropdownMenuContent` | `panelSegmentation.customDropdownMenuContent`  | Custom content for the dropdown menu in the Segmentation Panel.             |
| `PanelSegmentation.disableEditing`             | `panelSegmentation.disableEditing`              | Disables editing segmentations in the Segmentation Panel.                    |
| `PanelSegmentation.showAddSegment`             | `panelSegmentation.showAddSegment`              | Controls visibility of the "Add Segment" button in the Segmentation Panel.    |
| `PanelSegmentation.onSegmentationAdd`          | `panelSegmentation.onSegmentationAdd`           | Custom function to execute when a new segmentation is added.                 |
| `PanelSegmentation.tableMode`                | `panelSegmentation.tableMode`                 | Controls the table mode (collapsed/expanded) in the Segmentation Panel.       |
| `PanelSegmentation.readableText`             | `panelSegmentation.readableText`              | Custom readable text labels for the Segmentation Panel.                       |
| `PanelStudyBrowser.studyMode`                | `studyBrowser.studyMode`                     | Controls the study mode (all/primary/recent) in the Study Browser Panel.      |
| `customRoutes`                                | `routes.customRoutes`                         | Defines custom routes for the application.                                  |
| `cornerstoneOverlayTopLeft`                   | `viewportOverlay.topLeft`                    | Custom overlay items for the top-left corner of the viewport.                  |
| `cornerstoneOverlayTopRight`                  | `viewportOverlay.topRight`                   | Custom overlay items for the top-right corner of the viewport.                 |
| `cornerstoneOverlayBottomLeft`                | `viewportOverlay.bottomLeft`                 | Custom overlay items for the bottom-left corner of the viewport.              |
| `cornerstoneOverlayBottomRight`               | `viewportOverlay.bottomRight`                | Custom overlay items for the bottom-right corner of the viewport.             |
